# Code KPI

Thoughts: Need measurements that mean something to us and the businesses we serve Measure the team not the individual. Individual performance is dealt with at the manager level. Velocity of teams don't indicate speed because estimates are not standard. "On time" or "predictability" is a major concern for our customers Something of complexity or quality that will be a leading indicator of long term value External Stakeholder surveys/satisfaction \(Colin,Zac\) "Measuring by happiness of stakeholders is extremely volatile and can easily be skewed by recent events \(positive or negative\)." "We could take advantage of the reviews which stakeholders were doing \(and still doing quarterly\)" How stakeholders feel that their stories were handled \(if they feel like their requests are being left behind\) How the speed and professionalism of work being done was \(1-10?\) How many issues have occurred since launch of the change \(bug/TT count\) How many new requests were created by the stakeholder in the previous sprint \(helps track how much of an impact on the backlog they see that they make\) Impact/Project Revenue from completed projects \(built by going back to review a completed project like we have discussed\) Value Delivered - perhaps this is revenue, but this could also be used for an ops team. A story saves X hours for the merch team; I could see a director/manager of a dept having a "dollar per hour" amount to use when submitting items for stories. This would help to create a value index for a story or project, even for operations. This would also help to set prioritization. Lastly we could then apply our own dev dollars per hour for the effort to fix which would help refine the value index by taking into account the cost to implement. Positive effects on web conversion - GA/Omniture/Optimizely Story points completed per sprint - Regular Sprint Metrics Amount of stories completed sprint - Regular Sprint Metrics? Internal Dev Team surveys/satisfaction \(Colin, Zac\) Work life balance - Survey? Bad Attrition - Categorize attrition? Trimming waste on site/processes - Waste Tracker? Technical

Complexity \(complexity\) The cyclomatic complexity of a repository. The higher the number the higher the difficulty the code can be to work. A lower number should lead to faster implementations. Uncovered Complexity \(uncovered-complexity\) Complex methods that don't have sufficient code coverage are ticking time bombs for bugs. Has Build \(has-build\) Does the repository have a build? Repositories that don't have builds can easily fall into disrepair. Green Build \(green-build\) Is the repository's build currently green. Broken builds indicate broken code. Last Red Build \(last-red-build\) How long has it been in days since the last build broke Build Streak \(build-streak\) How many green builds do we have in a row Coverage Velocity \(coverage-velocity\) Is code coverage increasing or decreasing. .Net Version \(net-version\) The .Net version present in the repository Distance From Latest \(distance-from-latest\) The distance any repository is from the latest version of .Net. Ideally reported in a diff semver format. Nuget Dependencies \(nuget-dependencies\) What NuGets does this project depend on? Ideas Test to Code Ratio \(test-code-ratio\) The KLOC of Test Code divided by the KLOC of Application Code. Test Velocity \(test-velocity\) Are we getting more tests or shrinking our test count Issue Breakdown \(issue-breakdown\) Issue Velocity \(issue-velocity\) TODO Count \(todo-count\) How many "come back to this" notes do we have? How is that count trending? \(e.g. Catapult is collecting many, but as release approaches that needs to fall\) Delivery Capability 1. Cycle Time 2. Release frequency of items that would go to "Project Team" 3. defects/bug tracking numbers Resources: Agility Index Snapshot - [http://www.ebmgt.org/Solutions/Agility-Index-Snapshot](http://www.ebmgt.org/Solutions/Agility-Index-Snapshot) [https://magdevelopment.atlassian.net/wiki/display/MEP/MEP-108%3A+Measurements](https://magdevelopment.atlassian.net/wiki/display/MEP/MEP-108%3A+Measurements)

